The Statue In The Harbor
The statue in the harbor was blind.
Her lamp was growing dimmer
And she didn't see the storm clouds breaking over there.
She didn't see the white hot flames that leapt
From burning towns and villages and farms,
And made the sky glow red with fire, and made
The land flow red with blood.
Nor did she see
The twisted, tortured faces of the men
Who burned alive amid the flaming, toppling walls
That were once their peaceful, comfortable homes.
In which they shared their sorrows and their joys.
Their work and play, with others of their families.
She only saw the smiling mask that hid the brutish face.
The silken glove that hid the iron hand.
The statue in the harbor was deaf.
She didn't hear the thunder.
Nor did she hear
The anguished cries of people trampled in the dust.
She only heard the explanations.
The reasons why the promises these people had received.
That their towns and villages and farms would go untouched.
Were broken.
The reasons why the towns and villages and farms were burned!
The reasons why the citizens were trampled to the dust!
The reasons why!!!
The statue in the harbor was mute.
She couldn't speak of things she didn't see or hear.
She only spoke the words she uttered to express the dream
She'd dreamt.
Fine words were these.
And finer still the dream which prompted them.
The application of these words had made the dream come true.
But sometimes she forgot them and mistreated them.
And when the practice of those words
Was threatened and suppressed in other lands.
She went her way as if she, too, weren't threatened.
But the flames grew higher and the voices grew louder.
As the storm engulfed two continents.
And then, at last
She saw the gaping ruins and she heard the cries.
The statue in the harbor looks down from where she stands
And sees the dauntless people of those "conquered" continents.
And then she speaks the old familiar words.
But with a deeper meaning in them.
For now she knows that when this storm is spent and passed.
That she must never shut her eyes and ears and voice again.
That she must hold within her memory.
The simple lesson of this tragedy;
That if the liberties of any one group are threatened.
Then those of every group are threatened too.
And they must meet that threat
With deeds as well as words.