On Bunker Hill
There was a gentle hill with slopes ascending, near
A little town that bordered by the sea.
Where, in a silent hour, you could hear
The clocks record the progress of eternity.
It was upon an early Junelit night in Spring
Filled with the stars and with the starlit sky.
That strong willed men were on the march because
They had to fight if they would live as men.
A pale, low-hung moon marched with them as they went
Their dusty way, through woods, by stony hills.
Perhaps, as they passed by, a twig was bent;
And then the moon was silent and the stars were still.
At last, in coming to a quiet wooded place.
They halted and they gathered in the dark.
Around a light, they held their conference
And learned their destination and their goal.
And they could see the odds were heavy at a glance.
They knew the road was uphill, but they saw
It was the right way, so they took their chance.
They took the rough, hard way and gladly went to war.
And then it was they left the worn and beaten path
And crossed the thread of land to better ways.
A friend on horseback met them on their course
And traveled with them to their destiny.
(The only thing unchanged by time's exacting toll
Is change. Like water, what can it create
Unless it is directed toward a goal?
When changing for the better, we control our fate.)
And knowing this, they marched with destiny and stopped
Upon a hill and with them stopped the moon
As it had done four thousand years before
At Joshua's command on Gideon.
Upon the crest they dug their trenches in the night
And night befriended them against the foe.
They raised an earthern wall upon the height.
They heard the sentries pacing on the ships below.
The sun came up from over there behind the earth.
Still warm from its last visit yesterday.
It shone into the sky and turned it blue.
Then turned upon the earth and made it green.
With dawn they saw the tyrant sleeping in the bay
And in the town beyond, and he was grown
Into a giant now and who were they?
Then they remembered David and were not alone.
And they could see the ships at anchor on the sea.
The men of war, their sails filled with pride.
The foolish, boastful pride that makes one blind.
(Pride is but madness and the wise are meek.)
They were discovered in a very little while.
And soon the guns were trained and very soon
The cannon balls were racing up the mile
To scar the grassy hill that hid the waning moon.
The men upon the hill dug deeper in their trench
As time progressed amid the flying death.
They built a wooden platform on the wall
And mounted it at times to look abroad.
There was the enemy, there was the little town.
There were the cannon and the ships with guns.
There was the line of soldiers filing down
To waiting boats, their sabres flashing in the sun.
Here was a hill with apple orchards on the side
And pastures where the grass was tall and green.
Here clumps of daisies bloomed, for it was Spring,
And dandelions grew, for it was June.
The foe had landed and was starting up the slope.
They came and fired volleys in the air.
They shot their muskets not without the hope
That noise would frighten them and they would run like hares.
They came as on parade. "This is the enemy
Who comes and fires volleys to the sun.
They think that they are gallant--and they are!
But when has gallantry redeemed a wrong?"
They trampled on the field flowers and the grass.
They almost reached the top, but it was then
That each defender fired into the mass.
And some were killed but those that lived, attacked again.
And on the third time, when the holders' guns were spent
And victory was given to the foe.
They took the hill. "The day is ours," they said.
The day was theirs but drawing to a close.
The farmers lost their hill and scattered in defeat.
But when they lost, they won a victory
Because they made advancement in retreat
And left the mind of man filled with a memory.
Man will remember who it was that battled there
Against that enemy. He will recall
That they were just some farmers who were right--
He will remember and he will be free!